Add October newsletter (#131)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-october-2021.rst

Thanks to our external contributors `Mozi`_ and `Dmitry`_.

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our :doc:`Read the Docs
Changelog <readthedocs:changelog>`.

.. _Mozi: https://github.com/pzhlkj6612
.. _Dmitry: https://github.com/mitya57

Upcoming features
-----------------

- Ana_ will work on the UI of our landing and marketing pages,
  while making progress with version 1.1 of our Sphinx theme.
- Anthony_ will resume work on our new product interface
  and wrap up some financial updates.
- Eric_ will focus on expanding our CDN functionality on the commercial site,
  as well as addressing some upcoming changes to how custom domains work on Read the Docs Community.
- `Juan Luis`_ will document several recent changes,
  such us the new build specification and our support for generic webhooks,
  and continue expanding our tutorial and improving the SEO of our docs.
- Manuel_ will finish the migration of our services to Ubuntu 20.04,
  release a new version of sphinx-hoverxref that uses our new embed API,
  and gather feedback on our new build specification.
- Santos_ will continue consolidating our Community and Commercial codebases,

>   finish the work on generic webbooks for easier integration with Slack and other tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  finish the work on generic webbooks for easier integration with Slack and other tools,
```

Author: 🤦🏽‍♂️ will change the comma directly in `main`

.. post:: October 6, 2021
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features in October.

Read the Docs newsletter - October 2021
=======================================

Welcome to the latest edition of our monthly newsletter, where we
share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,
offer a summary of new features we shipped
during the previous month,
and share what we'll be focusing on in the near future.

Company highlights
------------------

- We have resumed sending our blog updates by email.
  You can `subscribe to our newsletter <https://landing.mailerlite.com/webforms/landing/p8b7z2>`_
  so you don't miss them.
- Version 3 of our Embed API is now implemented,
  thanks to :doc:`the CZI grant we received</czi-grant-announcement>`.
  We will give more details about it soon.
- We have reworked :doc:`our team page <readthedocs:team>`
  to give you a better idea of who we are and how we work at the company.

New features

> ------------

Reviewer: New things missing here:

- https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/8498
- https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/8477

Author: Right, thanks! I missed that those were user-facing. I will include a screenshot of the latter.

- You can now use our newer build specification
  that uses a newer image based on Ubuntu 20.04
  and gives more control over the versions of
  Python, Node.js, Rust, and Go.
  Projects like `pypa/cryptography <https://github.com/pyca/cryptography/pull/6330>`_
  and `thebe <https://github.com/executablebooks/thebe/pull/472>`_
  are already using it,

>   and we will publish documentation for it and make an announcement soon.

Reviewer 2: Yea, link to `latest` 👍

- We have revamped our onboarding process.

>   If you are new to Read the Docs, you can now clone

Reviewer 2: Is clone the right word? Seems overloaded with `git clone` -- perhaps `Fork`? GH says `Use this template`, so maybe use similar here?

Author: Woops, what I was thinking. Yes, Fork or Use are the right choices here.

  `our template repository <https://github.com/readthedocs/tutorial-template>`_
  and follow :doc:`our tutorial <readthedocs:tutorial/index>`
  to learn how to use the platform.
  We plan to keep expanding the tutorial during the coming weeks.
- We have made :doc:`our how-to guides <readthedocs:guides/index>` more visible
  and simplified its categorization, in addition to other documentation improvements.

Thanks to our external contributors `Mozi`_ and `Dmitry`_.

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs

> Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Should we use intersphinx here too?

Author: Yup, changing!

.. _Mozi: https://github.com/pzhlkj6612
.. _Dmitry: https://github.com/mitya57

Upcoming features
-----------------

- Ana_ will work on the UI of our landing and marketing pages,
  while making progress with version 1.1 of our Sphinx theme.
- Anthony_ will resume work on our new product interface
  and wrap up some financial updates.
- Eric_ will focus on expanding our CDN functionality on the commercial site,

>   as well as addressing some upcoming changes from our provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  as well as addressing some upcoming changes to how custom domains work on Read the Docs Community.
```

- `Juan Luis`_ will document several recent changes,
  such us the new build specification and our support for generic webhooks,
  and continue expanding our tutorial and improving the SEO of our docs.
- Manuel_ will finish the migration of our services to Ubuntu 20.04,
  release a new version of sphinx-hoverxref that uses our new embed API,
  and gather feedback on our new build specification.
- Santos_ will continue consolidating our Community and Commercial codebases,
  finish the work on our Slack integration,
  enable Commercial users to create new subscriptions after they cancel,

>   finish our Slack bot,

Reviewer: this would be more like "Finish our new generic webhook notifications, for easy integration with Slack", there is no bot, I mean, we could use it for our internal testing of the webhooks, but isn't something public.

Author: Got it, thanks!

  and collaborate with Eric_ on the CDN issues.

Possible issues
---------------

We are detecting an increasing number of spammy projects on our platform.
While this rarely affects legitimate users, it is still a concern to us

> and we are planning to take measures to tackle it.

Reviewer: probably is worth mentioning https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/8555

Author: Done!
